>> Marcy Sutton: You can choose
how you wanna work on this.
So you can play around with that
onRouteUpdate method in Gatsby and
play with it in React.
I think success would just look
like handling focus somehow.
It's up for exploration and
playing around.
I also have a vanilla.js
version here that,
because the routing in Gatsby
is kinda hidden away from you,
I think it can conceptually be a little
bit harder to follow what's happening.
So I added this little sandbox that I'm
using to debug Gatsby itself, actually.
>> Marcy Sutton: This
little routing prototype,
you just can switch
between these two routes.
It's pretty rudimentary, but
it gives you all of the scripts over
here for actually rendering the page.
So this is like what a JavaScript
framework is doing under the hood,
is replacing what's on the screen.
And so, this gives us a little
more handles to go in and
play with focus handling.
So I've added a marker where
you can go and play with focus.
So let's experiment with, as you're
changing routes, where focus goes.
And make sure that you test it
with not just the mouse, but
play with the keyboard and
see where your focus is.
And I guess the the one last thing I will
mention that's different between the two
versions is that in this prototype,
it's just got the browser default focus.
In the Gatsby version,
I'm using focus visible,
which I'm going to actually show
you where that is hooked up.
So there's a layout CSS file in that site
chrome directory, just if you're curious,
that's where I'm handling to specify
what the focus should be doing.
So this is doing this for keyboard users.
And I believe that in the layout.js file,
which is also in this directory,
that's just where I'm importing this.
I didn't really cover that earlier,
so just in case you're curious.
So yeah, let's break for 10 minutes or
so, and we'll play with routing.
>> Speaker 2: Is that JS focus
visible class for the poly fill?
>> Marcy Sutton: Yeah, so
that's for a poly fill.
Eventually, wouldn't need that, hopefully.
[LAUGH] See how long that takes.
So yeah, this import is purely just for
the poly fill purpose.
And then, if I go out to the layout CSS,
there is some poly fill remnants
here of it adds a js focus visible
class to the body, and
that's how i can safely use this.
What I wanna avoid is if
the poly fill isn't there and
it's not supported, I don't want
to turn focus off for everyone.
That's what I want to avoid, and
that's why the poly fill's important.
>> Marcy Sutton: So yeah, those are the
differences between the code pen and
the Gatsby version.
So let's go for it.